Python Project Developed by Amol S Vaze - Using Skype4py Skype API.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.	First Step -


	•	This is a solution to test VOIP calls for Skype application using Skype4Py.
	•	Test cases have been included in a separate file.
	•	Sources can be found at:- [Solution\Skype4Py\unittests]
	•	Brief description of Skype4Py:-
		o	Project uses Skype4Py API as a part of resource.
		o	Skype4Py is a BSD-licensed open source Python wrapper used for project. It works on Windows, Linux and MacOS X so your scripts will work on all these platforms without any change. Its API is very similar to Skype4COM making it also suitable for rapid prototyping.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2.	Flowchart & Design Of System

	•	Design of the system makes use of Skype4Py API in order to log the observations to a file. A sample flowchart is shown as follows:-
	•	Flowchart explains normal flow of operation with number of dropped calls (dropcounts) and number of successful calls (successcounts) depending upon the outcome(As explained below in 3).
	•	This flowchart depicts working of the main loop involved in script.
	•	As long as call is in progress, monitor function continuously getting called.
	•	When call status changes to finish it logs the corresponding count values to the log file.
	•	Refer appendix for Flowchart for short working of system in Python script.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3.	Brief Working Of Codebase

	•	Codebase is included in solution.py file.
	•	The project uses Skype4Py API to keep track of number of dropouts & other relevant quality metrics includes number of succeeded calls with the help of API given.
	•	A separate log file is being generated by python script at run time & it keeps logging the data such as number of dropouts and number of succeeded calls to Skype.
	•	A monitor function is defined to continuously monitor the calling process.
	•	Two variables viz. dropcount & successcount have been used to keep track of number of dropout calls and succeeded calls & to log them to log file at run time.
	•	A loop has been set to run the overall process which keeps on printing the call status while call is in progress. At the same time it keeps calling monitor function while call status is being in progress. As soon as call status is finished it exits the while loop.
	•	As mentioned earlier, variable successcount gets incremented by one when call status is finished. That means API is successfully able to make a Skype call. Ideally it should be one which implies that script is successfully executed. Finally while loop breaks as status has changed to finished.
	•	On the other side, variable dropcount gets incremented by one when there is chance of call dropping & call is not successfully received by the receiver. That means it must have been missed by the recipient. It has a value depending upon the how many times it has missed or dropped.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4.	Instructions to execute script

	•	Command to execute Python script is python solution.py “Skype Id” where Skype Id is the id of the user to which we want to make a call. Example echo service has id ‘echo123’. To make skype call via script it would be “python solution.py echo123”.
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5.	Appendix

Fig :- Flowchart for short working of system in Python script- Flowchart Optional - One of the important design components.

